# pyTalkManager

pyTalkManager is a program to aid public talk coordinators in the
congregations of Jehovah's Witness. It is written in
[Python3](https://www.python.org/) and uses the
[Qt](http://qt-project.org/) GUI framework
([PySide](http://qt-project.org/wiki/PySide)) and
[SQLite](https://www.sqlite.org/) for its database, all of which are
open source and cross platform technologies. Visit the project's
[wiki](https://github.com/TheoDevelopers/pyTalkManager/wiki) for more
information.

##Development

pyTalkManager is only now starting to be developed. At the moment I am
in the designing phase and do not expect to have pyTalkManager ready
for quite some time. Check back every few weeks to keep an eye on the
progress.


##Open Source

pyTalkManager is being developed under an free software model. I would
like to take the time to explain what exactly does that means and how
it benefits you as a user.


###Open Source and Free Software

Computer applications are made with something called a *source
code*. The source code are the written instructions the application
uses to run on your computer. An analogy can be made with baking. If a
cake were to be baked, the baker would have to follow a set of
instructions, a recipe, in order to arrive at the end product, a
delicious cake. It can be said that the *recipe* is the cake's source
code.

Say you loved the cake but you had a few ideas to improve upon on it,
say you want to add raisins, or perhaps bake a smaller version of the
cake to fit in your lunch box. Maybe you are allergic to nuts and need
to know if the cake contains nuts. Well, if the baker keeps his recipe
secret then you are unable to bake the cake your self or check how it
was made.

[Open source software](http://opensource.org/)/[Free software](https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html)
refers to software in which its source code, or *recipe*, is made
public for anyone to view. Also, anyone has the right to download the
source code and make or modify the application. Perhaps you would like
to add a new feature or fix a bug. These are all properties of a open
and free model.

###Benefits






##Installation

Visit the
[installation section](https://github.com/TheoDevelopers/pyTalkManager/wiki/installation)
in our wiki for installation instructions.


##Open Source

I have decided to create pyTalkManager as an open source project. By
using an [open source](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_source)
model, features and bug fixes can be submitted by anyone who is
willing to help. Furthermore, if the project becomes stagnate, others
may take the source code of pyTalkManager and continue its
development. This is in stark contrast to how programs for talk
coordinators have been developed in the past and it is my opinion that
developing these important programs with an open source model is both
productive and beneficial for the end user.

Not sure what open source software means? The following video gives a
basic overview of the open source
model. [Open Source Basics](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Tyd0FO0tko8)


##Note

pyTalkManager is not affiliated with the [Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania](http://www.JW.org).
